react-native quick start guide (#235)
imagekitio/docs-keep-a-changelog: getting-started/quickstart-guides/react-native.md

Reviewer: IIRC a lot of RN devs use Expo. Do we need to add it here specifically or would the instructions be the same for Expo users too?

Ref: https://expo.dev/

Reviewer: Compared to the iOS tutorial where we just cloned the sample app and just parameters, we're making the user copy paste multiple components one by one even though those components don't have anything specific to do with the ImageKit integration (like the Button, the Main screen etc.). Why're we not starting from a sample app here?

Author: I had discussion on it with had similar doubt, we decided to move in the current direction like creating app from scratch

Author: regarding `expo` the only difference would be setting up an expo environment for running the application. The rest of our react-native application would be the same.

This guide walks you through the following topics:

* [Setting up react-native app](react-native.md#setting-up-react-native-app)

> * [Setting up Imagekit Javascript SDK](react-native.md#setting-up-imagekit-javascript-sdk)

Reviewer: Can we replace `Imagekit` by `ImageKit` throughout this document?

Author: done

> * [Setting up react-native app](react-native.md#setting-up-react-native-app)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Setting up the React Native app](react-native.md#setting-up-the-react-native-app)
```

Please make the same change in the heading too.

Author: done

* [Rendering Images](react-native.md#rendering-images)
* [Applying common image manipulations](react-native.md#common-image-manipulation)
* [Adding overlays](react-native.md#adding-overlays)
* [Client-side file uploading](react-native.md#client-side-file-uploading)
* [Rendering videos](react-native.md#rendering-videos)

{% hint style="info" %}
If you are new to React Native app development, you can learn about setting up the development environment and creating a new project here [https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup).
{% endhint %}

> ## **Setting up react-native app**

Reviewer: Please make the heading same the the text linking to it above.

Author: done

npx react-native start
```

> And now to run the app in the IOS simulator (you should have Xcode installed)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And now to run the app in the iOS simulator (you should have Xcode installed)
```

Reviewer: <img width="499" alt="image" src="https://github.com/imagekitio/docs-keep-a-changelog/assets/141143550/bce56daf-cb25-47d4-9781-32b360132e77">

Author: done

```bash
npm run ios
```

Or to run the app in the android simulator (you should have android studio installed)

```bash
npm run android
```

You should see the following screen. This means the sample app has been set up correctly.

<div style="text-align:center;">
	<img src="../../.gitbook/assets/react-native-initial.PNG" alt="react-native-initial" width="300"/>
</div>

### Let's configure the components required for the application.

Execute the provided command to install the packages required for the application.

```bash
npm install @react-navigation/native @react-navigation/stack react-native-gesture-handler react-native-safe-area-context react-native-screens
```

{% hint style="info" %}

> In the sample app, we are using our own custom `Button` components created using React Native's components to ensure consistency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the sample app, we are using our own custom `Button` component created using React Native's components to ensure consistency.
```

Author: done

{% endhint %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="app/components/Button/index.js" %} 
{% code title="app/components/Button/index.js" %}
```js
import React from 'react';
import {Text, TouchableOpacity} from 'react-native';
import getStyleSheet from './styles';

function Button(props) {
  let styleSheet = getStyleSheet(props.cssProps || {});
  return (
    <TouchableOpacity onPress={props.onPress} style={styleSheet.button}>
      <Text style={styleSheet.text}>{props.children}</Text>
    </TouchableOpacity>
  );
}

export default Button;
```
{% endcode %}
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="app/components/Button/styles.js" %}
{% code title="app/components/Button/styles.js" %}
```js
import {StyleSheet} from 'react-native';

function getStyleSheet(cssProps) {
  return StyleSheet.create({
    button: {
      height: 40,
      width: cssProps.width || 100,
      backgroundColor: 'dodgerblue',
      justifyContent: 'center',
      alignItems: 'center',
    },
    text: {
      color: cssProps.textColor || 'white',
      fontSize: 15,
      marginLeft: 10,
      marginRight: 10,
    },
  });
}

export default getStyleSheet;
```
{% endcode %}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

> Create `index.js` and `styles.js` files within the `app/screens/Main` directory. These files will incorporate buttons facilitating navigation to different screens, which will be developed in the subsequent sections. This configuration serves as our home screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create `index.js` and `styles.js` files within the `app/screens/Main` directory. These files will render & style buttons facilitating navigation to different screens, which will be developed in the subsequent sections. This configuration serves as our home screen.
```

Reviewer: Could also use `have` instead. Just trying to use simpler (and technical) English words.

Author: done

            onPress={() => navigation.navigate('Fetch Images')}>
            Fetch Images
          </Button>
        </View>
        <View style={styleSheet.btnView}>
          <Button
            cssProps={styleSheet.buttonCssProps}
            onPress={() => navigation.navigate('Fetch Videos')}>
            Fetch Videos
          </Button>
        </View>
      </View>
    </>
  );
}

export default Main;
```
{% endcode %}
{% endtab %}
{% tab title="app/screens/Main/styles.js" %}
{% code title="app/screens/Main/styles.js" %}
```js
import {StyleSheet} from 'react-native';

function getStyleSheet() {
  return StyleSheet.create({
    headContainer: {
      flex: 1,
      alignItems: 'center',
      justifyContent: 'center',
    },
    btnContainer: {
      flex: 4,
      alignItems: 'center',
      justifyContent: 'flex-start',
    },
    btnView: {
      marginTop: 10,
      marginBottom: 10,
    },
    buttonCssProps: {
      width: 300,
    },
    text: {
      color: 'black',
      fontSize: 30,
      marginLeft: 10,
      marginRight: 10,
    },
  });
}

export default getStyleSheet;
```
{% endcode %}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

> Create the `AppComponent.js` file within the `app` directory, encompassing the screens. Initiate with the home screen. Additionally, open the `App.tsx` file and include the provided code to render the `AppComponent`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the `AppComponent.js` file within the `app` directory which will contain the screens. Add the home screen.
Open the `App.tsx` file and add the provided code to render the `AppComponent`.
```

Author: done

{% tabs %}

{% tab title="app/AppComponent.js" %}
{% code title="app/AppComponent.js" %}
```js
import React from 'react';
import {createStackNavigator} from '@react-navigation/stack';
import Main from './screens/Main';

const Stack = createStackNavigator();

function AppComponent() {
  return (
    <Stack.Navigator>
      <Stack.Screen name="Home" component={Main} />
    </Stack.Navigator>
  );
}
export default AppComponent;
```
{% endcode %}
{% endtab %}
{% tab title="App.tsx" %}
{% code title="App.tsx" %}
```js
import 'react-native-gesture-handler';
import 'react-native-url-polyfill/auto';
import React from 'react';
import {SafeAreaView} from 'react-native';
import {NavigationContainer} from '@react-navigation/native';
import AppComponent from './app/AppComponent';

function App() {
  return (
    <SafeAreaView style={{flex: 1}}>
      <NavigationContainer>
        <AppComponent />
      </NavigationContainer>
    </SafeAreaView>
  );
}

export default App;
```
{% endcode %}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

It will look as shown below.

<div style="text-align:center;">

> 	<img src="../../.gitbook/assets/react-native-home.PNG" alt="React Native home screen" width="300"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	<img src="../../.gitbook/assets/react-native-home.PNG" alt="React Native Home Screen" width="300"/>
```

Reviewer: Make the change in other places too.

Author: done

</div>

## **Setting up ImageKit Javascript SDK**

> We will be using [ImageKit javascript SDK](https://github.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-javascript). So let's install it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will be using [ImageKit JavaScript SDK](https://github.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-javascript). So let's install it.
```

Author: done

```bash
npm install imagekit-javascript
```

> {% hint style="warning" %}

Reviewer: `URL [API]` looks wrong. We should use `[URL API]` for the link since we're linking to the MDN page for that API & not for the definition of an API itself.

Author: done

> And now to run the app in the ios simulator (you should have Xcode installed)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And now to run the app in the iOS simulator (you should have Xcode installed)
```

Author: done

```bash
npm run ios
```

Or to run the app in the android simulator (you should have android studio installed)

```bash
npm run android
```

You should see the following screen. This means the sample app has been set up correctly.

<div style="text-align:center;">
	<img src="../../.gitbook/assets/react-native-initial.PNG" alt="react-native-initial" width="300"/>
</div>

### Let's configure the components required for the application.

Execute the provided command to install the packages required for the application.

> ```bash

Reviewer: Can we list all the packages in a single command instead of separate ones? Something like:

```
npm install package1 \
package2 \
package3
```

This was the user won't have to run multiple commands. Most terminals don't copy multiple lines at once properly AFAIK.

Author: done

npm install @react-navigation/native
npm install @react-navigation/stack
npm install react-native-gesture-handler
npm install react-native-safe-area-context
npm install react-native-screens
```

{% hint style="info" %}

> In the sample app, we are using our own custom `Button` components created using React native's components for consistency, you can use them, original or any other UI kit if you want.

Reviewer: > you can use them, original or any other UI kit if you want.

"original" is slightly confusing here. I'm assuming you mean this: https://reactnative.dev/docs/button

Would saying the core component button provided by RN be more clear?

Reviewer: We can also choose to not mention this altogether. It should be understood that the user can use their own UI components.

Author: updated the above line

  });
}

export default getStyleSheet;
```
{% endcode %}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Create the `AppComponent.js` file within the `app` directory, encompassing the screens. Initiate with the home screen. Additionally, open the `App.tsx` file and include the provided code to render the `AppComponent`.

{% tabs %}

{% tab title="app/AppComponent.js" %}
{% code title="app/AppComponent.js" %}
```js
import React from 'react';
import { createStackNavigator } from '@react-navigation/stack';

import Main from './screens/Main';
import Fetch from './screens/Fetch';

const Stack = createStackNavigator();

function AppComponent() {
	return (
		<Stack.Navigator>
			<Stack.Screen name="Home" component={Main} />
		</Stack.Navigator>
	);
};
export default AppComponent;
```
{% endcode %}
{% endtab %}
{% tab title="App.tsx" %}
{% code title="App.tsx" %}
```js
import React from 'react';
import {createStackNavigator} from '@react-navigation/stack';

import Main from './screens/Main';
import Fetch from './screens/Fetch';

const Stack = createStackNavigator();

function AppComponent() {
  return (
    <Stack.Navigator>
      <Stack.Screen name="Home" component={Main} />
    </Stack.Navigator>
  );
}

> export default AppComponent;

Reviewer: Formatting in code-blocks is slightly inconsistent across the entire tutorial.
```
import { createStackNavigator } from '@react-navigation/stack';
import {createStackNavigator} from '@react-navigation/stack';
```

```
return (
		<Stack.Navigator>
			<Stack.Screen name="Home" component={Main} />
		</Stack.Navigator>
	);
	
return (
    <Stack.Navigator>
      <Stack.Screen name="Home" component={Main} />
    </Stack.Navigator>
  );
  
```

This shouldn't be a major issue though IMO so it can be ignored.

Reviewer 2: Formatting matters. It should be consistent.

Author: done formatted the code

```
{% endcode %}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

It will look as shown below.

<div style="text-align:center;">
	<img src="../../.gitbook/assets/react-native-home.PNG" alt="React native home screen" width="300"/>
</div>

> ## **Setting up Imagekit Javascript SDK**

Reviewer: Should we suggest installing the `react-native-url-polyfill` by default & remove the additional hint in this section considering that all future versions will need it?

Author: I think it's better to give the user information on why they need to install `react-native-url-polyfill `.  So I think the above hint would be helpful.

Reviewer: Alright.

#### **Initializing the SDK**

Create `app/lib/imagekit.js` file, this is where we will initialize our SDK and create helper functions that will be used in the app.

* `urlEndpoint` is the required parameter. You can get the value of URL-endpoint from your ImageKit dashboard - [https://imagekit.io/dashboard/url-endpoints](https://imagekit.io/dashboard/url-endpoints).
* `publicKey` and `authenticationEndpoint` parameters are optional and only needed if you want to use the SDK for client-side file upload. You can get these parameters from the developer section in your ImageKit dashboard - [https://imagekit.io/dashboard/developer/api-keys](https://imagekit.io/dashboard/developer/api-keys).

Also initialize the SDK with parameters set in the config file `app/config/imagekit.js`

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="app/config/imagekit.js" %} 
{% code title="app/config/imagekit.js" %}
```js
module.exports.urlEndpoint = ''; //insert your own url end point here
module.exports.publicKey = ''; //insert your own public key here

> module.exports.authenticationEndpoint = ''; //your auth api path, currently set to demo server included with this project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
module.exports.authenticationEndpoint = ''; //your auth api path
```

I think we should mention that we'll set it to the demo server endpoint in this tutorial. 
We haven't done it yet so saying that "currently set to demo server" doesn't make sense.

Author: done

#### **Initializing the SDK**

Create `app/lib/imagekit.js` file, this is where we will initialize our SDK and create helper functions that will be used in the app.

* `urlEndpoint` is the required parameter. You can get the value of URL-endpoint from your ImageKit dashboard - [https://imagekit.io/dashboard/url-endpoints](https://imagekit.io/dashboard/url-endpoints).
* `publicKey` and `authenticationEndpoint` parameters are optional and only needed if you want to use the SDK for client-side file upload. You can get these parameters from the developer section in your ImageKit dashboard - [https://imagekit.io/dashboard/developer/api-keys](https://imagekit.io/dashboard/developer/api-keys).

Also initialize the SDK with parameters set in the config file `app/config/imagekit.js`

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="app/config/imagekit.js" %} 
{% code title="app/config/imagekit.js" %}
```js
const urlEndpoint = ""; //insert your own url end point here
const publicKey = ""; //insert your own public key here
const authenticationEndpoint = ""; //your auth api path, currently set to demo server included with this project

module.exports.urlEndpoint = urlEndpoint;
module.exports.publicKey = publicKey;

> module.exports.authenticationEndpoint = authenticationEndpoint;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
module.exports.urlEndpoint = ""; //insert your own url end point here
module.exports.publicKey = ""; //insert your own public key here
module.exports.authenticationEndpoint = ""; //your auth api path, currently set to demo server included with this project
```

Author: done

```
{% endcode %}
{% endtab %}
{% tab title="app/lib/imagekit.js" %}

> {% code title="app/lib/imagekit.js" %}

Reviewer: In `app/lib/imagekit.js`, is some sort of validation run for empty `publicKey` & `authenticationEndpoint` parameter?

Author: There is a check for `publicKey` and `authenticationEndpoint` these if they are present then only we are passing it to config options 
```suggestion
{% code title="app/lib/imagekit.js" %}
const imagekitConfigOptions = {urlEndpoint};
if (publicKey) imagekitConfigOptions.publicKey = publicKey;
if (authenticationEndpoint)
  imagekitConfigOptions.authenticationEndpoint = authenticationEndpoint;

const imagekit = new ImageKit(imagekitConfigOptions);
```

Author: There is a check for `publicKey` and `authenticationEndpoint` these if they are present then only we are passing it to config options 
 ```
const imagekitConfigOptions = {urlEndpoint};
if (publicKey) imagekitConfigOptions.publicKey = publicKey;
if (authenticationEndpoint)
  imagekitConfigOptions.authenticationEndpoint = authenticationEndpoint;

const imagekit = new ImageKit(imagekitConfigOptions);
```

{% code title="app/lib/imagekit.js" %}
```javascript
module.exports.getImagekitUrlFromSrc = function (imageSrc, transformationArr) {
  const ikOptions = {
    src: imageSrc,
    transformation: transformationArr,
  };
  const imageURL = imagekit.url(ikOptions);

  return imageURL;
};
```
{% endcode %}

> To create a URL from the image path, we can create a helper function like this below. This function takes the URL endpoint, image path, transformation array, and transformation position as parameters and returns the transformed image URL.

Reviewer: The function isn't taking the URL endpoint. 

IMO we don't need to have this line explaining the function input and output. It's apparent from the code itself. 
We can just use the full name for `transformationArr` i.e. `transformationArray` & get rid of this statement.

Reviewer: Note: If you end up renaming `transformationArr`, do it through the entire doc.

Author: done update it to `transformationArray`

{% code title="app/lib/imagekit.js" %}
```javascript
module.exports.getImagekitUrlFromPath = function (
  imagePath,
  transformationArr,
  transformationPostion,
) {
  const ikOptions = {
    urlEndpoint,
    path: imagePath,
    transformation: transformationArr,
  };
  if (transformationPostion)
    ikOptions.transformationPostion = transformationPostion;

  const imageURL = imagekit.url(ikOptions);

  return imageURL;
};
```
{% endcode %}

{% hint style="info" %}
The transformation position (path or query) is only valid when creating a URL from the image path. Transformations are always added as query parameters if the URL is created from an absolute image path using **src**.
{% endhint %}

> Now, lets create `app/screens/Fetch/index.js` to fetch an image. Also, update `app/AppComponent.js` to include the fetch image screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's create `app/screens/Fetch/index.js` to fetch an image. Also, update `app/AppComponent.js` to include the fetch image screen.
```

"lets" is letting someone do a thing
"let's" is short for let us

Reviewer: Check the lets vs. let's thing at other places in the document too. I think you meant to use `let's` but used `lets` in a few places due to typo.

Author: done

  const [imageDimesions, setImageDimensions] = useState();

  useEffect(() => {
    currentTr == 'Transformation 1'
      ? setImageDimensions({height: 150, width: 150})
      : setImageDimensions({height: 300, width: 300});
    showTransformedImage(currentTr);
  }, [currentTr]);

  function showTransformedImage(transformationType) {
    let transformationArr = [];
    let transformedImageUrl;

    switch (transformationType) {
      case 'Transformation 1': //basic image resizing
        transformationArr = [
          {
            height: 150,
            width: 150,
          },
        ];
        transformedImageUrl = getImagekitUrlFromSrc(
          imageSrc,
          transformationArr,
        );
        break;

      case 'Transformation 2': //crop mode and url from source
        imageSrc = 'https://ik.imagekit.io/demo/img/plant.jpeg';
        transformationArr = [
          {
            height: 300,
            width: 300,
            cropMode: 'pad_resize',
            background: '435EDA',
          },
        ];
        transformedImageUrl = getImagekitUrlFromSrc(
          imageSrc,
          transformationArr,
        );
        break;

>       case 'Transformation 3': //aspect ration and url from path and transformations as query param

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      case 'Transformation 3': //aspect ratio and url from path and transformations as query param
```

Author: done

{% code title="app/lib/imagekit.js" %}
```javascript
module.exports.getImagekitUrlFromSrc = function(imageSrc, transformationArr){
	var ikOptions = {
		src: imageSrc,
		transformation: transformationArr
	}

> 	var imageURL = imagekit.url(ikOptions);

Reviewer: Can we use `const` or `let` instead of `var` wherever possible across the entire tutorial?

Author: done  updated the code and docs

The transformation position (path or query) is only valid when creating a URL from the image path. Transformations are always added as query parameters if the URL is created from an absolute image path using **src**.
{% endhint %}

> Now, lets create `app/screens/Fetch/index.js` to fetch an image also lets update `app/AppComponent.js` to include fetch image screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, lets create `app/screens/Fetch/index.js` to fetch an image. Also, update `app/AppComponent.js` to include the fetch image screen.
```

Author: done

              style={{
                width: imageDimesions.width,
                height: imageDimesions.height,
              }}
            />
            <View style={styleSheet.captionView}>
              {currentTr ? (
                <Text style={styleSheet.text}>{currentTr}</Text>
              ) : (
                <Text style={styleSheet.text}>
                  Image with no Transformation
                </Text>
              )}
            </View>
            <View style={styleSheet.captionView}>
              <Text style={styleSheet.text}>Rendered URL - {imageUrl}</Text>
            </View>
          </>
        )}
      </View>
    </>
  );
}

export default Fetch;

export default Fetch;
```
{% endcode %}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

It will look as shown below. In the sample app, the buttons are present to demonstrate the use of different transformations. You can see the full list of supported transformations [here](https://github.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-javascript#list-of-supported-transformations).

<div style="text-align:center;">
	<img src="../../.gitbook/assets/react-nativet0.PNG" alt="React native without transformation" width="300"/>
</div>

> ## Common Image Manipulation

Reviewer: We're mentioning the React SDK in this section. I'm not sure if it has anything to do with the React Native tutorial since we're using the JavaScript SDK in this case.

Author: done removed React SDK it should be Javascript SDK

{% code title="app/screens/Fetch/index.js" %}
```javascript
function showTransformedImage() {
  let transformedImageUrl = getImagekitUrlFromSrc(imageSrc, [
    {
      height: 150,
      width: 150,
    },
  ]);
  setImageUrl(transformedImageUrl);
}
```
{% endcode %}

Output : 

<div style="display:flex; flex-direction:row; justify-content:center;">

> 	<img src="../../.gitbook/assets/react-nativet1.PNG" alt="React Native basic image resizing" width="300"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	<img src="../../.gitbook/assets/react-nativet1.PNG" alt="React Native Basic Image Resizing" width="300"/>
```

Author: done

</div>

### Crop Mode

> 

Reviewer: different crop mode works -> different crop modes work

Reviewer: Also, add a linebreak after the end of 1st statement. The paragraph is quite long.

Reviewer: We say that we're going to see how different crop modes work but just end up showing a single crop mode.

Author: done updated the message also

{% code title="app/screens/Fetch/index.js" %}
```javascript
function showTransformedImage() {
	var transformedImageUrl = getImagekitUrlFromSrc(imageSrc, [{
		"height": 150,
		"width": 150,
	}]);
	setImageUrl(transformedImageUrl);
}
```
{% endcode %}

Output : 

> <div style="display: flex; flex-direction:row;justify-content: center;">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div style="display:flex; flex-direction:row; justify-content:center;">
```

Author: done

{% code title="app/screens/Fetch/index.js" %}
```javascript
function showTransformedImage() {
	var transformedImageUrl = getImagekitUrlFromSrc(imageSrc, [{
		"height": 200,
		"width": 300,
		"cropMode" : "pad_resize",
		"background" : "F3F3F3"
	}]);
	setImageUrl(transformedImageUrl);
}
```
{% endcode %}

Output : 

<div style="text-align:center;">

> 	<img src="../../.gitbook/assets/react-nativet2.PNG" alt="React native crop mode" width="300"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	<img src="../../.gitbook/assets/react-nativet2.PNG" alt="React Native crop mode" width="300"/>
```

Please do a find & replace on the entire document so that we're using the same letter case everywhere.

Author: done

{% code title="app/screens/Fetch/index.js" %}
```javascript
function showTransformedImage() {
  let transformedImageUrl = getImagekitUrlFromSrc(imageSrc, [
    {
      height: 200,
      width: 300,
      cropMode: 'pad_resize',
      background: 'F3F3F3',
    },
  ]);
  setImageUrl(transformedImageUrl);
}
```
{% endcode %}

Output : 

<div style="text-align:center;">
	<img src="../../.gitbook/assets/react-nativet2.PNG" alt="React Native crop mode" width="300"/>
</div>

> ### Aspect Ratio

Reviewer: <img width="702" alt="image" src="https://github.com/imagekitio/docs-keep-a-changelog/assets/141143550/1d9fa460-f154-495d-ba5d-2ec23d5464f8">

See the `**:**`.

Author: done

{% code title="app/screens/Fetch/index.js" %}
```javascript
function showTransformedImage() {
  let transformedImageUrl = getImagekitUrlFromSrc(imageSrc, [
    {
      height: 300,
      width: 300,
    },
    {
      rotation: '90',
    },
  ]);
  setImageUrl(transformedImageUrl);
}
```
{% endcode %}

Output :

<div style="text-align:center;">
	<img src="../../.gitbook/assets/react-nativet6.PNG" alt="React Native chained Transformation" width="300"/>
</div>

> 

Reviewer: Line 742

`Text overlay can be used to superimpose text on an image. Try it like so:`

Change to:
`Text overlay can be used to place text on an image. Here's how:`

Author: done

{% code title="app/screens/Fetch/index.js" %}
```javascript
function showTransformedImage() {
	var transformedImageUrl = getImagekitUrlFromSrc(imageSrc, [{
		raw: 'l-image,i-plant.jpeg,h-100,b-10_CDDC39,l-end'
	}]);
	setImageUrl(transformedImageUrl);
}
```
{% endcode %}

Output :

<div style="text-align:center;">
	<img src="../../.gitbook/assets/react-nativet3.PNG" alt="React native home screen" width="300"/>
</div>

## **Client-side file uploading**

Let's learn how to upload an image to our media library.

For this, we would need a dummy backend app to authenticate our upload request. API authentication for upload always happens on the backend for security reasons.

In the following section, we will create a backend server that we can use.

### **Setting up the backend app**

For this quickstart guide, we will create a sample Node.js server which will provide an authentication endpoint at `http://localhost:3001/auth`.&#x20;

Let's create a file `index.js` inside `server` folder in the project root.

```bash
mkdir server
touch server/index.js
```

Install the basic packages needed to create a dummy server for ImageKit backend authentication:

```js

> npm install --save express uuid dotenv cors

Reviewer: `--save` isn't needed now IIRC. The packages are saved under dependencies by default as of npm 5.0.0 which was released in 2017. 
We should remove the --save flag across this document.

Ref: https://blog.npmjs.org/post/161081169345/v500

Author: done removed `--save`

```

> We will use the[ ImageKit Node.js SDK](https://github.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-nodejs) to implement `http://localhost:3001/auth`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will use the [ImageKit Node.js SDK](https://github.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-nodejs) to implement `http://localhost:3001/auth`.
```

Author: done

The backend SDK requires your API [public key](../../api-reference/api-introduction/api-keys.md#public-key), [private key](../../api-reference/api-introduction/api-keys.md#private-key), and [URL endpoint](../../integration/url-endpoints.md). You can obtain them from [Developer Options](https://imagekit.io/dashboard/developer/api-keys) and [URL-endpoint](https://imagekit.io/dashboard/url-endpoints) pages respectively.

This is how `server/index.js` file should look now.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Node.js" %}
{% code title="server/index.js" %}
```javascript
const dotenv = require('dotenv');
const express = require('express');
const router = express.Router();
var cors = require('cors');
const app = express();
app.use(cors());

dotenv.config();

const uuid = require('uuid');
const crypto = require("crypto");

> const privateKey = process.env.PRIVATE_KEY;

Reviewer: I think we should directly put the private key here (as `""`) like most tutorials do since we're just trying to get an app up and running.
It'd also save the user from installing the `dotenv` dependency while trying out ImageKit for their app & remove a small section from this tutorial.

Author: done

router.get("/auth", function(req, res) {
    var token = req.query.token || uuid.v4();
    var expire = req.query.expire || parseInt(Date.now()/1000)+2400;
    var privateAPIKey = `${privateKey}`;
    var signature = crypto.createHmac('sha1', privateAPIKey).update(token+expire).digest('hex');
    res.status(200);

>     res.send({
>         token : token,
>         expire : expire,
>         signature : signature
>     });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    res.send({
        token,
        expire,
        signature
    });
```

Author: done

});

app.use("/",router);

app.listen(8080,function(){
  console.log("Live at Port 8080");
});
```
{% endcode %}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Obtain your [API private key](../../api-reference/api-introduction/api-keys.md#private-key) from the developer section from the ImageKit dashboard, and paste it in the server `.env` file.

```bash
PRIVATE_KEY = <your_private_key>
```

Let's run the backend server.

```
cd server
node index.js
```

> You should see a log saying that the app is _**“Live on port 3001”**_.

Reviewer: In the code, we're using port 8080.

Author: done updated it

Let's run the backend server.

```
cd server
node index.js
```

You should see a log saying that the app is _**'Live at port 8080'**_.

If you GET `http://localhost:8080/auth`, you should see a JSON response like this. Actual values will vary.

```javascript
{
    token: "5dd0e211-8d67-452e-9acd-954c0bd53a1f",
    expire: 1601047259,
    signature: "dcb8e72e2b6e98186ec56c62c9e62886f40eaa96"
}
```

#### **Configure the auth endpoint in the frontend app**

Head over to `app/config/imagekit.js` and replace the `authenticationEndpoint` with `http://localhost:8080/auth`

### **Upload an image**

{% hint style="info" %}
Try using `react-native v0.73.0` which is the latest version at the time of writing this article, as some of the previous versions have a known [issue](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/issues/29021) in uploading files. If you are using a previous version and can't upgrade, you'll have to implement a [workaround](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/issues/29021#issuecomment-678829869).
{% endhint %}

> For this, let's create couple of functions in `app/lib/imagekit.js` file and also lets update `app/AppComponent.js` to include upload screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this, let's create couple of functions in `app/lib/imagekit.js` file and update `app/AppComponent.js` to include the upload screen.
```

Author: done

  const res = await authenticator();
  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    imagekit.upload(
      {
        file,
        fileName: file.name, //you can change this and generate your own name if required
        tags: ['sample-tag-1', 'sample-tag-2'], //change this or remove it if you want
        ...res,
      },
      function (err, result) {
        if (err) reject(err);
        resolve(result);
      },
    );
  });
};
```
{% endcode %}
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="app/AppComponent.js" %}
{% code title="app/AppComponent.js" %}
```js
import React from 'react';
import {createStackNavigator} from '@react-navigation/stack';

import Main from './screens/Main';
import Fetch from './screens/Fetch';
import Upload from './screens/Upload';
import Videos from './screens/Videos';

const Stack = createStackNavigator();

function AppComponent() {
  return (
    <Stack.Navigator>
      <Stack.Screen name="Home" component={Main} />
      <Stack.Screen name="Fetch Images" component={Fetch} />
      <Stack.Screen name="Upload File" component={Upload} />
    </Stack.Navigator>
  );
}

export default AppComponent;
```
{% endcode %}
{% endtab %}

{% endtabs %}

> For selecting a file, we will need a picker. Here we are using `react-native-document-picker` but you can use any picker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are going to use `react-native-document-picker` to select files.
```

Author: done

This is how `server/index.js` file should look now.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Node.js" %}
{% code title="server/index.js" %}
```javascript
const express = require('express');
const router = express.Router();
const cors = require('cors');
const app = express();
app.use(cors());

const uuid = require('uuid');
const crypto = require('crypto');

const privateKey = ''; //insert your own private key here
router.get('/auth', function (req, res) {
  const token = req.query.token || uuid.v4();
  const expire = req.query.expire || parseInt(Date.now() / 1000) + 2400;
  const privateAPIKey = `${privateKey}`;
  const signature = crypto
    .createHmac('sha1', privateAPIKey)
    .update(token + expire)
    .digest('hex');
  res.status(200);
  res.send({
    token,
    expire,
    signature,
  });
});

app.use('/', router);

app.listen(8080, function () {
  console.log('Live at Port 8080');
});
```
{% endcode %}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Obtain your [API private key](../../api-reference/api-introduction/api-keys.md#private-key) from the developer section from the ImageKit dashboard, and paste it in the server `index.js` file.

Let's run the backend server.

```
cd server
node index.js
```

> You should see a log saying that the app is _**“Live on port 8080”**_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see a log saying that the app is _**'Live at Port 8080'**_.
```

Reviewer: Need to match w/ the server log line.

Author: done

If you GET `http://localhost:8080/auth`, you should see a JSON response like this. Actual values will vary.

```javascript
{
    token: "5dd0e211-8d67-452e-9acd-954c0bd53a1f",
    expire: 1601047259,
    signature: "dcb8e72e2b6e98186ec56c62c9e62886f40eaa96"
}
```

> #### **Configure the auth endpoint in the frontend app**

Reviewer: <img width="739" alt="image" src="https://github.com/imagekitio/docs-keep-a-changelog/assets/141143550/261b392e-c109-4061-b60f-2b92324429c6">

See the highlighted part.

Author: done

> If you don't see the file, check if there are any errors in the browser console log. Make sure that the private API key has been configured. The server app is running. And the uploaded file type is [supported](../../api-reference/upload-file-api/#allowed-file-types-for-uploading) by ImageKit.

Reviewer: `browser console log`? The user was running the app on their emulator, right? So they'd see the error there.

Author: yes updated it to `If you don't see the file, check if there are any errors in the log.`

## **Rendering videos**

Rendering videos works similarly to rendering images.

> To play a video file, a video player is required. In this context, we are utilizing `react-native-video`, but feel free to choose any video player of your preference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're going to use the `react-native-video` package to play video files, but you can use any other video player.
```

Also, link the npm package.

Author: done

```bash
npm install react-native-video
```

> This is how we fetch videos in `app/screens/Videos/index.js` and also lets update `app/AppComponent.js` to include video fetch screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the `app/screens/Videos/index.js` and `app/AppComponent.js` file to fetch video.
```

Author: done
